Let's welcome you to the section on object oriented programming basics.
The first question we want to look at is kind of the basic question for Object-Oriented program what
is a class.
This is simply class on your screen right now.
So cricket scorer it has the instance variable and it has a few methods which act on that particular
instance variable.
And here we have a main program which is using that particular class given this example.
What is really a class what does a class really mean.
A class is basically at template the way this cricket score is a template I can create any number of
instances of this template.
So just like a crosscourt that I'm creating in here I can create quarter one quarter to quarter three.
So this is basically a template from which you create objects.
So it's a template for creating multiple objects.
The most important thing is a class defined state and behavior that an object can exhibit what is state
of an object the state of object is the values that it has at that particular point in time.
If you look at this example.
So school is equal to.
Scorer.
Scorer not 6.
So after I have a six what would happen this core value would include being prevented by 6 and scored
would have a value of 6.
That's the state of horror at that particular point in time.
So the state of Korea at this point in time at this line of course is that it has a value of six.
Similarly after this line it's six plus for 10.
So score plus for the code becomes denser.
That's the state of the score object.
So basically you would look at the state.
So this glass defines that this particular instance of this scoter would contain a state called score.
So you can have multiple with a built in a specific class so you get a state suit all the values of
all the values which can change so it can solve all the member ladybirds.
So this is instantly with a member available.
So this is part of the state of an object the behavior of the object behavior of a class.
That's basically what all the objects of this class would get is the different math teacher present
in here.
So you have a behavior called for which basically increases the state of the object by four.
You have a behavior called Six.
It's the method six actually.
So what is the behavior 6.
It increments the score by six.
To summarize a class is just a template and it defines the state of an object and a behavior.
What is an object.
We discuss that in the previous example as well.
So object is nothing but an instance of a case a specific instance of the class.
So this is scorer.
I'm creating a scorer object of which class of cricket scores the plus you can have multiple instances
of the same class created creative so I can say cricket scorer.
Scorer one is equal to nuker gets colder.
So that's possible that's good too because you would want to use your class multiple times to create
multiple objects.
That's basically an object and the object has a state and a behavior of this object.
What are the methods that can be called that behavior.
What are the values that are contained in this object.
It's called the state.
That's exactly what we were discussing here.
So what is state of an object.
The values assigned to instance variables are from object.
What are the values value in the square object at this point.
That's basically the state of an object.
And as it stays here the state of the object might change with time.
If I'm taking a vehicle object the state might be the speed of the vehicle and the speed of the vehicle
might be different at different points in time.
So the State of the object would change the time and this state change would be through the behavior.
So the method of the object are what can change the state of the object and the behavior is basically
the methods that are exposed from an object.
So that's basically behavior behavior is basically the methods that are supported by an object in the
previous example it's 6 4 and gets called The next thing we want to discuss is what is a superclass
of every class in jour.
OK.
That basically object.
This is kind of any class that you create in Jawa inherit from the object class.
So that's the reason why when they create a string you have strings or two strings string dot hash called
String dot call.
These are birds which are already present in the object class and there you can also try this.
If you do actually suit like this it would print that I extend object lipstick a quick look.
So I'm creating a class called String examples.
There is a class called actor with a staff member variable name.
So you can see that in here.
So we are actually creating two instances of this object.
Brad Pitt and Tom Cruise.
And these are having a couple of values.
But if you look at Brad Pitt Daut and tapping it and I'm seeing different methods come in you can see
here that it's getting a clone method from the objects getting equal to method from the object class
find method from the object class.
So these are the different methods that we actually inherit from the object.
So if I actually go into the clone so you can look at all the different methods which are present in
the object.
So different methods which are present in the object class get class hash code equals to string nor
define weight.
So and obviously there is a clone and the final placement.
So these are the different thing to chaplet isn't it.
These are the different behaviors which are expect exhibited by the object class.
And they say all the classes in Java inherit these methods.
So that's the object class which is a superclass of all objects in Java are all classes in Java.